 Aristotle is one of the greatest philosophers of all time, with his works shaped centuries of philosophy from Late Antiquity through the Renaissance, and even today continue to be studied with keen, non-antiquarian interest. He left a great body of work, possibly numbering as many as two-hundred treatises, and his philosophy defies easy encapsulation due to its wide range and remoteness in time. His theories have provided illumination, met with resistance, sparked debate, and generally stimulated the sustained interest of an abiding readership. The history of interpretation and appropriation has rendered even basic points of interpretation controversial, and the set of entries addresses this situation by proceeding in three tiers: General Topics, which offer detailed introductions to the main areas of his philosophical activity, and Special Topics which investigate in greater detail more narrowly focused issues, especially those of central concern. The four causal account of explanatory adequacy, has proven irresistible to historians, but little concrete is known about their interaction. It seems reasonable to conclude that some tuition took place, but that it lasted only two or three years, when Alexander was aged from thirteen to fifteen. Alexander was apparently already serving as a deputy military commander for his father, a circumstance undermining, if inconclusively, the judgment of those historians who conjecture a longer period of tuition. Aristotle's writings tend to present difficulties to novice readers due to heavy use of unexplained technical terminology, sentence structure, and haphazard organization. His extant works are characterized by lecture notes, drafts first written and then reworked, ongoing records of continuing investigations, and in-house compilations intended not for a general audience but for an inner circle of auditors. However, the unvarnished condition of his surviving treatises does not hamper our ability to come to grips with their philosophical content. The Aristotelian sciences divide into three branches: theoretical, practical, and productive. The theoretical sciences seek knowledge for its own sake; practical science concerns conduct and goodness in action, both individual and societal; and productive science aims at the creation of beautiful or useful objects (Top. 145a15–16; Phys. 192b8–12; DC 298a27–32; Met. 1025b25, 1026a18–19, 1064a16–19; EN 1139a26–28, 1141b29–32). Practical sciences are less contentious, at least as regards their range. Practical science deals with conduct and action, either individual or societal. The productive sciences are mainly crafts aimed at the production of artefacts, or of human productions more broadly construed. The Organon is a group of works coming down to us from the Middle Ages under the heading Organon (organon = tool in Greek). The works included in the Organon deal with category theory, the doctrine of propositions and terms, the structure of scientific theory, and to some extent the basic principles of epistemology. Aristotle's basic approach to philosophy is best grasped initially by contrast. He begins by considering how the world appears, reflecting on the puzzles that appear to be the case, and reviewing what has been said about those puzzles to date. His twin appeals to phainomena and the endoxic method reflect his deepest motivations for doing philosophy in the first place. He proceeds in all areas of inquiry in the manner of a modern-day natural scientist, who takes it for granted that progress follows the assiduous application of the well-trained mind and so, when presented with a problem, simply goes to work. He starts philosophizing by laying out the appearances, the appearance, and then collecting the endoxa, the credible opinions handed down regarding matters we find puzzling. It is not always possible to respect these opinions in their entirety, and some must be rejected outright. Aristotle's method of collecting stable and entrenched opinions regarding the topic of inquiry is called phainomena, which is a sub-class of endoxa. Endoxa are widely shared opinions that come to qualify as appearances to be preserved in the face of bona fide disagreement. In philosophy, we are likely to find ourselves seeking guidance from our predecessors even as we call into question their ways of articulating the problems we are confronting. The method of beginning with the endochon is more than a pious platitude to the effect that it behooves us to mind our superiors, but it is more instructively to appreciate that it represents a fairly technical term for him. Aristotle's reliance on aporiai is significant because it presents credible puzzles, reflection upon which may lead us towards a defensible understanding of the nature of time. Dialectic reasoning requires premises of a sort beyond the scope of ordinary dialectical reasoning, and a dialectical discussion can proceed by relying on endoxa, and so can claim only to be as secure as it relies on it. Logic is the first systematic treatment of the principles of correct reasoning, the first logic, and no-one before him attempted to codify the formal and syntactic principles at play. Aristotle's logic is based on inclusion and exclusion relations, and he believes that a perfect deduction is the sort of argument whose structure guarantees its validity, irrespective of the truth or falsity of its premises. He believes that anything taking this form will be a deduction, and that any proof would seem to rely ultimately upon the intuitive validity of this sort of deduction. He argues that by using transformations, we can place all deductions on a firm footing, and by varying the quantity of a proposition's subject and the quality or kind of the predication, we arrive at all possible combinations of the most basic kinds of arguments. A conclusion is that if all kinds of deductions possible can be reduced to the intuitively valid sorts, then the validity of all can be vouchsafed. He relies upon a series of meta-theorems, some of which he proves and others merely reports, but they do all indeed admit of proofs. Demonstration is a deduction with premises revealing the causal structures of the world, set forth so as to capture what is necessary and to reveal what is better known and more intelligible by nature. Aristotle's approach to the appropriate form of scientific explanation invites reflection upon a troubling epistemological question: how does demonstration begin? Aristotle suggests that we often use dialectic when we reason deductively about any matter proposed to us on the basis of endoxa, and to give an account of ourselves when we are under examination by an interlocutor without lapsing into contradiction. Aristotle identifies three roles for dialectic in intellectual inquiry: negative, destructive, and constructive. Dialectic is useful for training, conversational exchange, and sciences of a philosophical sort. It helps to sort the endoxa, relegating some to a disputed status while elevating others. It plays a significant role in the order of philosophical discovery by determining what is primary among the commitments of the science. The last locution (v) requires explication both because it is the favored technical term for essence, and it is an abbreviated way of saying ‘that which it was for an instance of kind K to be an instance,’ for instance ’that which is (all along) for a human being’. Aristotle rejects the modal approach of essentialism because he thinks that certain non-essential features satisfy the definition. He recognizes a category of properties which he calls idia (Cat. 3a21, 4a10; Top. 102a18–30, 134a5–135b6) and believes that being rational has a better claim to being the essence of human beings than being capable of grammar. In summary, he believes for a broad range of cases that kinds have essences discoverable by diligent research. In contrast, in cases of univocity, we expect single, non-disjunctive definitions which capture and state the essences of the kinds in question. In case of homonymy, we have a single essence to all members of the kind. The accounts of bank in these occurrences have nothing whatsoever in common, and part of the philosophical interest in his account of holonymy resides in its allowing partial overlap. Aristotle argues that the situation with respect to synonymy or homonymy is not immediately clear and requires reflection and philosophical investigation. To establish non-univocity, he appeals to a variety of tests in his Topics, where his idiom is linguistic but his quarry is metaphysical. He suggests that goodness is different in different cases and that good things form at best a motley kind, of the sort championed by Wittgensteineans enamored of the metaphor of family resemblances. To appreciate his basic idea, it serves to reflect upon a continuum of positions in philosophical analysis, ranging from pure Platonic univocacy to disaggregated Wittggensteinean family. He identifies and trumpets a kind of core-dependent homoonymy (also referred to in the literature, with varying degrees of accuracy, as focal meaning and focal connexion). Socrates' exercise regimen is healthy and his complexion is healthy. Aristotle appeals to a foundational philosophical commitment in his theory of categories, which appears early in his thought and remains stable throughout his entire philosophical career. His appeal to health is non-univocal, while the last two predications rely on the first for their elucidations. He also asserts that there is conceptual space between mere family resemblance and pure univocity. He argues that health is not only a homonym, but a core-dependent hamonym. He denies that there could be a science of being because there is no single genus being under which all and only beings fall, but only because of their dependence upon the core instance of being, namely substance. Aristotle announces that of things said without combination, each signifies either a substance (ousia) or a quantity; (iii) a quality; (v) where; (vi) when; (viii) having; (ix) acting upon; or (x) being affected. The philosophical category theorist categorizes ten sorts of extra-linguistic basic beings, including man, horse, quality white, grammatical Quantity two-feet long Relative double, slave Place in the market Time yesterday, tomorrow Position lying, sitting Having has shoes on Acting Upon cutting, burning Being Affected being cut, being burnt Aristotle's theory of time is based on the categorically circumscribed question of time, which is the measure of motion with respect to the before and after. He believes that time exists in a dependent sort of way and that all entities in categories outside of substance rely upon substance as the core of their being. The theory of categories provides a reason for uncovering core-dependent homonymy, as all other categories of being depend upon substance. The four-causal account of explanatory adequacy is central to his philosophy and serves as a scaffolding for much of his philosophical theorizing, including metaphysics, philosophy of nature, psychology, and value theory. The Four Causal Account of Explanatory Adequacy provides ample reason to conclude that all other things are either said-of primary substances, which are their subjects, or are in them as subjects. If we allow its non-univocity, then it would be impossible for anything else to exist. Aristotle's approach to explanation is straightforward and requires an investigator to cite the four causes (aitia): formal, material, efficient, and final. He expects the vast majority of explanations to conform to his four-causal schema. In non-exceptional cases, a failure to specify all four causes is an exception, but he insists that there is no fifth kind of cause, that his preferred four cases subsume all kinds of cause. He does not rest content there, but challenges readers to identify a sort of cause which qualifies as a distinct from the four mentioned. Aristotle's arguments for the four causes are objectively incomplete and inadequate. He believes that the four aitia feature in answers to knowledge-seeking questions and that some scholars have come to understand them more as becauses than as causes. His approach to causation and explanation is based on the notions of matter and form, which constitute one of his fundamental philosophical commitments to hylomorphism. In his Physics, he argues that all change involves at least two factors: something persisting and something gained or lost. In cases of change in the category of substance, something persists, and something gains weight. In all cases, the two-factor analysis obtains: something remains the sa. Aristotle recognizes final causal activity in the products of human craft, including computers and can-openers, and acknowledges the agency of an actually operative efficient cause for every instance of change. He also emphasizes the importance of actuality and potentiality as fundamental concepts that admit of explanation and description but do not admit reductive analyses. Aristotle proposes that nature exhibits teleology without design, and that whole organisms, human beings, and other animals also have final causes. However, he denies overtly that the causes operative in nature are intention-dependent. He believes that the parts of nature come about as they do either always or for the most part, whereas nothing which comes about due to chance or spontaneity comes about. The argument is problematic because it assumes an exhaustive and exclusive disjunction between what is by chance and what is for the sake of something, but there are obviously other possibilities. The counterexample to this view is that bile is regularly and predictably yellow. Aristotle insists on the primacy of primary substance in his categories, and the question arises as to which among them is the primary substance? The compound corresponds to a basic object of experience and seems to be a more basic subject than the compound, and perhaps form, as determining what the compound is, has the best claim on substantiality. The primary substances of the Categories have a final criteria that pull in different directions, the first in favor of particular substances. Aristotle identifies the soul as a principle or source (archê) of all life, as the cause and source of the living body. He believes that the soul is the primary cause of all living things and that the body is the body that it is because it is organized around a function that serves to unify the entire organism. Therefore, the soul and body are special cases of form and matter. Aristotle suggests that the body serves as a tool for implementing the characteristic life activities of the kind to which the organism belongs. He believes that the soul is the ‘first actuality of a natural organic body’ and that it is a ‘substance as form of the natural body which has life in potentiality’. To account for living organisms, he recommends reflection on the criteria any successful candidate for the best life must satisfy. He proposes one kind of life as meeting those criteria uniquely and therefore promotes it as the superior form of human life. To avoid unhappy eventualities, a life lived in accordance with reason is recommended. Aristotole encourages readers to review the general criteria for the final good for human beings, and suggests that happiness eudaimonia is achieved by fully realizing our natures, by actualizing to the highest degree our human capacities, and neither our nature nor our endowment of human capacities are a matter of choice for us. However, people disagree about the human good. The major question pursued in Aristotle's Politics is about what sort of political organization enhances human life and hinders it. The text discusses the importance of identifying the human function in terms of reason and determining what virtue or excellence constitutes human happiness. It also emphasizes the role of the ethical theorist in determining virtue-based ethics and how political theory is a continuation of ethical theory. Aristotle believes that political arrangement best meets the goal of developing and augmenting human flourishing. He considers a fair number of differing forms of political organization, three correct and three deviant, and considers the maintenance of a suitable level of distributive justice. He believes that the best polis has neither function, but it is the most we can realistically hope to achieve. He argues that democracy may play a central role in the sort of mixed constitution which emerges as the best form of political organisation available to us. The productive sciences include activities with obvious, artefactual products like ships and buildings, agriculture and medicine, and even, more nebulously, rhetoric, which aims at the production of persuasive speech and tragedy. However, some of the highly polemicized interpretative difficulties that have grown up around his works in this area, particularly the Poetics, may be sharply delimited. Aristotle aims to capture and codify what is best in both rhetorical practice and tragedy relative to its appropriate productive goal. Rhetoric examines techniques of persuasion pursuant to each of these areas, drawing heavily upon topics treated in his logical, ethical, and psychological writings. The end of rhetoric is given by the nature of the craft itself. Tragedy is an imitation of an action that is serious and complete, and has some greatness about it. It imitates people performing actions and does not rely on narration. It achieves catharsis through pity and fear, but not because it is its fu Aristotle believes that tragedy achieves catharsis and makes us of imitation (mimêsis), which is a key concept in his Poetics. However, he is not completely forthcoming on the question of the function of tragedy, and there are controversies around three poles of interpretation: the subject, the matter, the nature, and the enlightenment of the audience. In contrast, the poet praises poets for their ability to assay deep features of human character, to dissect the ways in which human fortune engages and tests character, and to display how human foibles may be amplified in uncommon circumstances. In addition to the concept of nave understanding, the audience undergoes purged emotions, while the emotions may be perfectly healthy, even though they may be improved by refinement. In more sophisticated and complex ways, mimèsis allows for representation and depiction, where we need not be regarded as attempting to copy anyone or anything in any narrow sense of the term. A. Translations of Aristotle's Complete Works into English are: Barnes, J., ed. The Complete Works of Anarchism, Volumes I and II, Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1984. An excellent translation of selections of his works is: Irwin, T. and Fine., G., A.: Selections, Translated with Introduction, Notes, and Glossary, Indianapolis: Hackett, 1995. The best set of English translations with commentaries is the Clarendon Aristothle Series: Ackrill, J, Categories and De Interpretatione, translated with notes, Oxford: Oxford University Press. The provided text is a collection of books and articles on Aristotle's philosophy and philosophy. It includes translations of books, articles, and other texts, as well as commentary from various sources such as academic journals, booksellers, and scholarly organizations. The provided entry is a collection of essays on Aristotle's philosophy, which includes articles on aesthetics, ethics, logic, metaphysics, politics, psychology, and natural philosophy. The author also mentions a podcast in the History of Philosophy without Gaps project that covers the topic.